RHIDP-2810: Document Learning Path configuration (#368)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/getting-started/proc-customize-rhdh-homepage.adoc

[id='proc-customize-rhdh-homepage_{context}']
= Customizing the Home page in {product}

> To access the Home page in {product}, the base URL must include the `/developer-hub` proxy. You can configure the Home page by passing the data into the `app-config.yaml` file as a proxy. You can provide data to the Home page by using the following sources:

Reviewer: Home page can be accessed without any configuration with static data i.e configuration is not a necessity. However If the user configures with a proxy then the data powering the home page can be updated

Author: @invincibleJai I only rearranged existing content here -- the bit about the base URL was mentioned at the very end of the Home page doc but at the very beginning of the Tech Radar doc, so I moved it to the beginning of the Home page doc, but did not change the meaning of the text. Is there something here that is / seems technically inaccurate and needs to be changed or removed?

[id='proc-customize-rhdh-homepage_{context}']
= Customizing the Home page in {product}

> To access the Home page in {product}, the base URL must include the `/developer-hub` proxy. You can configure the Home page by passing the data into the `app-config.yaml` file as a proxy. You can provide data to the Home page from the following sources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {product}, you can configure Home page by passing the data into the `app-config.yaml` file as a proxy. ou can provide data to the Home page from the following sources:
```

* JSON files hosted on GitHub or GitLab.
* A dedicated service that provides the Home page data in JSON format using an API.

> == Using hosted JSON files to provide data to the Learning Paths

Author: [Docs review] This content should be modularized under a separate Jira / PR

[id='proc-customize-rhdh-homepage_{context}']
= Customizing the Home page in {product}

To access the Home page in {product}, the base URL must include the `/developer-hub` proxy. You can configure the Home page by passing the data into the `app-config.yaml` file as a proxy. You can provide data to the Home page from the following sources:

* JSON files hosted on GitHub or GitLab.
* A dedicated service that provides the Home page data in JSON format using an API.

== Using hosted JSON files to provide data to the Learning Paths

.Prerequisites

> You have installed {product} by using either the Operator or Helm chart. For more information, see xref:proc-install-rhdh_rhdh-getting-started[].

Author: [SME] can you confirm that using the JSON files works regardless of whether RHDH is installed with Operator or Helm?

Reviewer: yeah that's correct

** Use the same service to provide the data to all configurable {product-short} pages or use a different service for each page.
** Use the https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider[`red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider`] as an example service, which provides data for both the Home and Tech Radar pages. The `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service provides the same data as default {product-short} data. You can fork the `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service repository from GitHub and modify it with your own data, if required.
** Deploy the `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service and the {product-short} Helm chart on the same cluster.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the {product} using the Helm chart. For more information, see xref:proc-install-rhdh_rhdh-getting-started[].

.Procedure

To use a separate service to provide the Home page data, complete the following steps:

. From the *Developer* perspective in the {ocp-brand-name} web console, click *+Add* > *Import from Git*.
. Enter the URL of your Git repository into the *Git Repo URL* field.
+
--

> To use the `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service, add the URL for the https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider[red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider] repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service, add the URL for the https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider[red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider] repository or your fork containing your customizations.
```

--

[NOTE]
====

> The `rhdh-customization-provider` service contains the 8080 port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `rhdh-customization-provider` service exposes port 8080 by default. You can override it using the `PORT` environment variable.
```

Reviewer 2: I guess following up on the [comment](https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/368/files#r1674263631) below, this would probably need to mention that adding a custom `PORT` would also require configuring the `Target Port` to match.

> The `rhdh-customization-provider` service contains the 8080 port.

Reviewer: `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` is the [repo name](https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider) linked in doc and `rhdh-customization-provider` is referred as service name as provided in the procedure -> step 3 

https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html/getting_started_with_red_hat_developer_hub/proc-customize-rhdh-homepage_rhdh-getting-started#proc-customize-rhdh-homepage_rhdh-getting-started

i agree this is confusing we can use `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` across as this gets default populated 

cc @Zaperex

> The `rhdh-customization-provider` service contains the 8080 port.

Reviewer 2: Yep that would make sense

====

. On the *General* tab, rename the value in the *Name* field to *rhdh-customization-provider* and click *Create*.
. On the *Advanced Options* tab, copy the value from the *Target Port*.
+
--

> The *Target Port* automatically generates a Kubernetes or {ocp-short} service to communicate with.

Reviewer: @Zaperex do we need to have this in doc or not needed as based on the example repo it auto populates 8080 in target port?

> The *Target Port* automatically generates a Kubernetes or {ocp-short} service to communicate with.

Reviewer 2: AFAIK, the `Target Port` would be the port the deployment would expose on the port. So if the user added specified a custom port at with the `PORT` environmental variable. Ex: `PORT=1234`, then the `Target Port` would need to match `1234`. But [by default the application uses port `8080`](https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider/blob/b6c669e67b619d6f0e18445a43606e857cf39c88/bin/www#L15), so the default Target Port of `8080` should suffice.

+
. Add the following code to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
proxy:
  endpoints:
    # Other Proxies
    # customize developer hub instance
    '/developer-hub':
      target: ${HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL}
      changeOrigin: true
      # Change to "false" in case of using self-hosted cluster with a self-signed certificate
      secure: true
----
where `HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL` is defined as `pass:c[http://<SERVICE_NAME>:8080]`, for example, `pass:c[http://rhdh-customization-provider:8080]`.
+
[NOTE]
====
The `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service contains the 8080 port by default. If you are using a custom port, you can specify it with the 'PORT' environmental variable in the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` file.
====
+
. Replace the `HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL` by adding the URL to `rhdh-secrets` or by directly replacing it in your custom ConfigMap.
+
. Delete the {product-short} pod to ensure that the new configurations are loaded correctly.

.Verification
* To view the service, navigate to the *Administrator* perspective in the {ocp-short} web console and click *Networking* > *Service*.
+
[NOTE]
====
You can also view the *Service Resources* in the Topology view.
====

> * Ensure that the provided API URL for the Home page returns the data in JSON format as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: should we add similar notes and JSON sample data for techradar and learning paths as well, looks like I missed it before

cc @linfraze @Zaperex

Reviewer 2: I think that would make sense since the expected JSON format is not the same for each. Main concern would be the size of the snippets to fully showcase the format (ex: how to configure multiple, what types of fields are supported, etc.)

Author: Yeah, I think that would be helpful to users. Let's add this under a separate Jira/PR.

Author: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-3303

--

. On the *General* tab, enter *red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider* in the *Name* field and click *Create*.
. On the *Advanced Options* tab, copy the value from the *Target Port*.
+
[NOTE]
====
The *Target Port* automatically generates a Kubernetes or {ocp-short} service to communicate with.
====
+
. Add the following code to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
proxy:
  endpoints:
    # Other Proxies
    # customize developer hub instance
    '/developer-hub':
      target: ${HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL}
      changeOrigin: true
      # Change to "false" in case of using self-hosted cluster with a self-signed certificate
      secure: true
----
where `HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL` is defined as `pass:c[http://<SERVICE_NAME>:8080]`, for example, `pass:c[http://rhdh-customization-provider:8080]`.
+
[NOTE]
====
The `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service contains the 8080 port by default. If you are using a custom port, you can specify it with the 'PORT' environmental variable in the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` file.
====
+
[NOTE]
====

> You can replace the `HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL` by adding the URL to `rhdh-secrets` or by directly replacing it in your custom ConfigMap.

Author: @Zaperex is this an optional step or must the user replace the `HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL` by using one of these two methods?

Reviewer 2: This is how we configure the url the proxy queries for the home page information so this is not optional. They could either provide use `HOMEPAGE_DATA_URL` in the `app-config` and then set it's value in a `Secret` or directly provide it in the `app-config` config map

Author: Will convert this admonition into a required step in the procedure

	<HEADER_KEY>: <HEADER_VALUE> # optional and can be passed as needed i.e Authorization can be passed for private GitHub repo and PRIVATE-TOKEN can be passed for private GitLab repo
----

== Using a dedicated service to provide data to the Learning Paths

When using a dedicated service, you can do the following:

* Use the same service to provide the data to all configurable {product-short} pages or use a different service for each page.
* Use the https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider[`red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider`] as an example service, which provides data for both the Home and Tech Radar pages. The `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service provides the same data as default {product-short} data. You can fork the `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service repository from GitHub and modify it with your own data, if required.

> * Deploy the `red-hat-developer-hub-customization-provider` service and the {product-short} Helm chart on the same cluster.

Author: [SME] can you confirm that these options apply to Home page, Tech Radar, and Learning Paths config, and not just to Home page config only. 

I reformatted this existing content as part of this PR, but it only exists in the Home page config doc file, currently.

Reviewer: yeah it applies to all

]
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```

Reviewer 3: @linfraze Looks good to me, I just added a few style comments.
